var/docs/calendar.md, before:

# Calendar

Kimai 2 provides a calendar view, which displays your timesheet entries in a easy readable format.
You can choose between a monthly, weekly and daily view.

The calendar view look and feel is configured with the config keys below `kimai.calendar` in `kimai.yaml`:  

```yaml
kimai:
    calendar:
        week_numbers: true
        day_limit: 4
        businessHours:
            days: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
            begin: '08:00'
            end: '20:00'
```

- `week_numbers` - whether week numbers should be displayed in the monthly view (default: true)
- `day_limit` defined the max amount of items to be displayed for one day in the monthly view (default: 4)
- `businessHours.days` defines your working days, which will be highlighted in the weekly and daily view. counting starts with sunday and the index 0, so 1 = monday, ..., 6 = saturday. (default: 1-5 / monday to friday) 
- `businessHours.begin` the start time of your working day, which will be highlighted in the weekly and daily view (default: 08:00 / 8am)
- `businessHours.end` the end time of your working day, which will be highlighted in the weekly and daily view (default: 20:00 / 8pm)

#### Integrating google calender

If you want to embed Google calendars e.g. to display regional holidays or company events you can import (multiple) Google calendars.

- read how to obtain your [Google API key and find the Calender ID](https://fullcalendar.io/docs/google-calendar)
- add the optional `kimai.calendar.google` configuration
- you can add any number of sources under the `kimai.calendar.google.sources` node, each must have its own name (like `holidays` and `company` in this example)

```yaml
kimai:
    calendar:
        google:
            api_key: 'your-restricted-google-api-key'
            sources:
                holidays:
                    id: 'de.german#holiday@group.v.calendar.google.com'
                    color: '#ccc'
                company:
                    id: 'de.german#holiday@group.v.calendar.google.com'
                    color: '#cc0000'
```

Commit message:

added configurable initial calendar view

var/docs/calendar.md, after:

# Calendar

Kimai 2 provides a calendar view, which displays your timesheet entries in a easy readable format.
You can choose between a monthly, weekly and daily view.

The calendar view look and feel is configured with the config keys below `kimai.calendar` in `kimai.yaml` / your [local.yaml](configurations.md):  

```yaml
kimai:
    calendar:
        initial_view: month
        week_numbers: true
        day_limit: 4
        businessHours:
            days: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
            begin: '08:00'
            end: '20:00'
```

- `initial_view` - defines the type of view when initially loading the calendar. available options are: month, agendaWeek, agendaDay, basicWeek, basicDay (default: month)
- `week_numbers` - whether week numbers should be displayed in the monthly view (default: true)
- `day_limit` defined the max amount of items to be displayed for one day in the monthly view (default: 4)
- `businessHours.days` defines your working days, which will be highlighted in the weekly and daily view. counting starts with sunday and the index 0, so 1 = monday, ..., 6 = saturday. (default: 1-5 / monday to friday) 
- `businessHours.begin` the start time of your working day, which will be highlighted in the weekly and daily view (default: 08:00 / 8am)
- `businessHours.end` the end time of your working day, which will be highlighted in the weekly and daily view (default: 20:00 / 8pm)

#### Integrating google calender

If you want to embed Google calendars e.g. to display regional holidays or company events you can import (multiple) Google calendars.

- read how to obtain your [Google API key and find the Calender ID](https://fullcalendar.io/docs/google-calendar)
- add the optional `kimai.calendar.google` configuration
- you can add any number of sources under the `kimai.calendar.google.sources` node, each must have its own name (like `holidays` and `company` in this example)

```yaml
kimai:
    calendar:
        google:
            api_key: 'your-restricted-google-api-key'
            sources:
                holidays:
                    id: 'de.german#holiday@group.v.calendar.google.com'
                    color: '#ccc'
                company:
                    id: 'de.german#holiday@group.v.calendar.google.com'
                    color: '#cc0000'
```
