var/docs/developers.md, before:

# Developers

This page is dedicated to all developers who want to contribute to Kimai. You are the best!

# Setting up your environment

All you need is:
- PHP >= 7.1 
- PHP extension: `PDO-SQLite` enabled

Optional requirement:
- a MySQL/MariaDB instance
- PHP extension: `PDO-MySQL` enabled

You could even test PostgreSQL and tell us how it works!

## Frontend dependencies 

If you want to make changes to CSS / Javascripts, you need:

- [NodeJS](https://www.npmjs.com/)
- [Yarn Package Manager](https://yarnpkg.com/en/)
- [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)
- [Webpack Encore](https://github.com/symfony/webpack-encore)

Please [install Yarn for your OS](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/) and then:

```bash
yarn install
```

To rebuild all assets you have to execute:
```bash
npm run dev
```
or
```bash
npm run prod
```

You can find more information at:

- https://symfony.com/doc/current/frontend/encore/installation.html
- https://symfony.com/doc/current/frontend.html

### Rebuilding assets for use in subdirectory

If you want to run Kimai in a subdirectory, you have to rebuild the frontend assets with a different webpack configuration.
Edit the file [webpack.config.js](../../webpack.config.js) and change `.setPublicPath('/build/')` to your needs.

After that re-compile the assets with:
```bash
npm run prod
```

## Extending the navigation bar

If you want to add your own entries in the navigation bar, you can subscribe to these events:

- `App\EventConfigureMainMenuEvent::CONFIGURE`
- `App\ConfigureAdminMenuEvent::CONFIGURE`

And that's how to use it:

```php
use App\Event\ConfigureMainMenuEvent;
use App\Event\ConfigureAdminMenuEvent;
use Avanzu\AdminThemeBundle\Model\MenuItemModel;
use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

class MySubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
{
    public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
    {
        return [
            ConfigureMainMenuEvent::CONFIGURE => ['onMainMenuConfigure', 100],
            ConfigureAdminMenuEvent::CONFIGURE => ['onAdminMenuConfigure', 100],
        ];
    }
    
    public function onMainMenuConfigure(ConfigureMainMenuEvent $event)
    {
        $event->getMenu()->addItem(
            new MenuItemModel('timesheet', 'menu.timesheet', 'timesheet', [], 'fa fa-clock-o')
        );
    }

    public function onAdminMenuConfigure(ConfigureAdminMenuEvent $event)
    {
        $event->getAdminMenu()->addChild(
            new MenuItemModel('timesheet_admin', 'menu.admin_timesheet', 'admin_timesheet', [], 'fa fa-clock-o')
        );
    }    
}
```
For more details check the [official menu subscriber](../../src/EventSubscriber/MenuSubscriber.php).

## Adding tabs to the "control sidebar"

We use twig globals to render the control sidebar tabs, so adding one is as easy as adding a new config entry:

```yaml
twig:
    globals:
        kimai_context:
            control_sidebar:
                # these are the official tabs
                settings:
                    icon: gears
                    controller: 'App\Controller\SidebarController::settingsAction'
                home:
                    icon: question-circle-o
                    template: sidebar/home.html.twig

```
You have to define the `icon` (font-awesome without the `fa-` prefix) to be used and one of `controller` action or `template`. 
Both follow the default naming syntax and you can easily link your bundle here instead of the app controller or templates.
You should NOT add them in `config/packages/kimai.yaml` but in your own bundle config, otherwise they might get lost in a Kimai update.

## Adding invoice renderer

An invoice renderer is a controller action that receives an instanceof `App\Model\InvoiceModel` and returns a HTML response.
This HTML response is the preview inside for the invoice screen. 

Adding invoice renderer can be achieved by adding keys to the configuration `kimai.invoice.renderer` like this:

```
kimai:
    invoice:
        renderer:
            default: 'App\Controller\InvoiceController::invoiceAction'
```

The name of the renderer must be unique, please prefix it with your vendor or bundle name and make sure it only contains
character as it will be stored in a database column.

## Adding invoice calculator

An invoice calculator is a class extending `App\Invoice\CalculatorInterface` and is responsible for calculating 
invoice rates, taxes and such.   

Adding invoice calculator can be achieved by adding keys to the configuration `kimai.invoice.calculator` like this:

```
kimai:
    invoice:
        calculator:
            default: 'App\Invoice\DefaultCalculator'
```

The name of the calculator must be unique, please prefix it with your vendor or bundle name and make sure it only contains
character as it will be stored in a database column.

## Adding invoice-number generator

An invoice-number generator is a class extending `App\Invoice\NumberGeneratorInterface` and its only task is to generate 
a number for the invoice. In most cases you do not want to mix multiple invoice-number generators througout your invoice templates.   

Adding invoice-number generator can be achieved by adding keys to the configuration `kimai.invoice.number_generator` like this:

```
kimai:
    invoice:
        number_generator:
            default: 'App\Invoice\DateNumberGenerator'
```

The name of the number generator must be unique, please prefix it with your vendor or bundle name and make sure it only contains
character as it will be stored in a database column.

## Adding timesheet calculator

A timesheet calculator will be called on stopped timesheet records. It can rewrite all values but will normally take care 
of the columns `begin`, `end`, `duration` and `rate` but could also be used to apply a default `description`.

Timesheet calculator need to implement the interface `App\Timesheet\CalculatorInterface` and will be automatically tagged 
as `timesheet.calculator` in the service container. They will be found and used *only* if you add them to the service container.

You can apply several rules in the config file [kimai.yaml](../../config/packages/kimai.yaml) for the existing 
`DurationCalculator` and `RateCalculator` implementations.  Please read the [configurations chapter](configurations.md) to find out more. 

The configuration for "rounding rules" can be fetched from the container parameter `kimai.timesheet.rounding`.

The configuration for "hourly-rates multiplication factors" can be fetched from the container parameter `kimai.timesheet.rates`.

Commit message:

Travis integration #120 (#159)
* fixed php versions used in travis #120
* fixed broken test #120
* updated developer docu

var/docs/developers.md, after:

# Developers

This page is dedicated to all developers who want to contribute to Kimai. You are the best!

# Setting up your environment

All you need is:
- PHP >= 7.1 
- PHP extension: `PDO-SQLite` enabled

Optional requirement:
- a MySQL/MariaDB instance
- PHP extension: `PDO-MySQL` enabled

You could even test PostgreSQL and tell us how it works!

## Frontend dependencies 

If you want to make changes to CSS / Javascripts, you need:

- [NodeJS](https://www.npmjs.com/)
- [Yarn Package Manager](https://yarnpkg.com/en/)
- [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)
- [Webpack Encore](https://github.com/symfony/webpack-encore)

Please [install Yarn for your OS](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/) and then:

```bash
yarn install
```

To rebuild all assets you have to execute:
```bash
yarn run dev
```
or
```bash
yarn run prod
```

You can find more information at:

- https://symfony.com/doc/current/frontend/encore/installation.html
- https://symfony.com/doc/current/frontend.html

### Rebuilding assets for use in a subdirectory

If you want to run Kimai in a subdirectory, you have to rebuild the frontend assets with a different webpack configuration.
Edit the file [webpack.config.js](../../webpack.config.js) and change `.setPublicPath('/build/')` to your needs.
After that re-compile the assets (see above).

## Running Unit tests

You can run unit and integration tests with built-in commands like that:

 ```bash
bin/console kimai:test-unit
bin/console kimai:test-integration
```

## Check your code styles

You can run the code sniffer with a built-in command like that:

 ```bash
bin/console kimai:phpcs
```

## Extending the navigation bar

If you want to add your own entries in the navigation bar, you can subscribe to these events:

- `App\EventConfigureMainMenuEvent::CONFIGURE`
- `App\ConfigureAdminMenuEvent::CONFIGURE`

And that's how to use it:

```php
use App\Event\ConfigureMainMenuEvent;
use App\Event\ConfigureAdminMenuEvent;
use Avanzu\AdminThemeBundle\Model\MenuItemModel;
use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

class MySubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
{
    public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
    {
        return [
            ConfigureMainMenuEvent::CONFIGURE => ['onMainMenuConfigure', 100],
            ConfigureAdminMenuEvent::CONFIGURE => ['onAdminMenuConfigure', 100],
        ];
    }
    
    public function onMainMenuConfigure(ConfigureMainMenuEvent $event)
    {
        $event->getMenu()->addItem(
            new MenuItemModel('timesheet', 'menu.timesheet', 'timesheet', [], 'fa fa-clock-o')
        );
    }

    public function onAdminMenuConfigure(ConfigureAdminMenuEvent $event)
    {
        $event->getAdminMenu()->addChild(
            new MenuItemModel('timesheet_admin', 'menu.admin_timesheet', 'admin_timesheet', [], 'fa fa-clock-o')
        );
    }    
}
```
For more details check the [official menu subscriber](../../src/EventSubscriber/MenuSubscriber.php).

## Adding tabs to the "control sidebar"

We use twig globals to render the control sidebar tabs, so adding one is as easy as adding a new config entry:

```yaml
twig:
    globals:
        kimai_context:
            control_sidebar:
                # these are the official tabs
                settings:
                    icon: gears
                    controller: 'App\Controller\SidebarController::settingsAction'
                home:
                    icon: question-circle-o
                    template: sidebar/home.html.twig

```
You have to define the `icon` (font-awesome without the `fa-` prefix) to be used and one of `controller` action or `template`. 
Both follow the default naming syntax and you can easily link your bundle here instead of the app controller or templates.
You should NOT add them in `config/packages/kimai.yaml` but in your own bundle config, otherwise they might get lost in a Kimai update.

## Adding invoice renderer

An invoice renderer is a controller action that receives an instanceof `App\Model\InvoiceModel` and returns a HTML response.
This HTML response is the preview inside for the invoice screen. 

Adding invoice renderer can be achieved by adding keys to the configuration `kimai.invoice.renderer` like this:

```
kimai:
    invoice:
        renderer:
            default: 'App\Controller\InvoiceController::invoiceAction'
```

The name of the renderer must be unique, please prefix it with your vendor or bundle name and make sure it only contains
character as it will be stored in a database column.

## Adding invoice calculator

An invoice calculator is a class extending `App\Invoice\CalculatorInterface` and is responsible for calculating 
invoice rates, taxes and such.   

Adding invoice calculator can be achieved by adding keys to the configuration `kimai.invoice.calculator` like this:

```
kimai:
    invoice:
        calculator:
            default: 'App\Invoice\DefaultCalculator'
```

The name of the calculator must be unique, please prefix it with your vendor or bundle name and make sure it only contains
character as it will be stored in a database column.

## Adding invoice-number generator

An invoice-number generator is a class extending `App\Invoice\NumberGeneratorInterface` and its only task is to generate 
a number for the invoice. In most cases you do not want to mix multiple invoice-number generators througout your invoice templates.   

Adding invoice-number generator can be achieved by adding keys to the configuration `kimai.invoice.number_generator` like this:

```
kimai:
    invoice:
        number_generator:
            default: 'App\Invoice\DateNumberGenerator'
```

The name of the number generator must be unique, please prefix it with your vendor or bundle name and make sure it only contains
character as it will be stored in a database column.

## Adding timesheet calculator

A timesheet calculator will be called on stopped timesheet records. It can rewrite all values but will normally take care 
of the columns `begin`, `end`, `duration` and `rate` but could also be used to apply a default `description`.

Timesheet calculator need to implement the interface `App\Timesheet\CalculatorInterface` and will be automatically tagged 
as `timesheet.calculator` in the service container. They will be found and used *only* if you add them to the service container.

You can apply several rules in the config file [kimai.yaml](../../config/packages/kimai.yaml) for the existing 
`DurationCalculator` and `RateCalculator` implementations.  Please read the [configurations chapter](configurations.md) to find out more. 

The configuration for "rounding rules" can be fetched from the container parameter `kimai.timesheet.rounding`.

The configuration for "hourly-rates multiplication factors" can be fetched from the container parameter `kimai.timesheet.rates`.
