var/docs/README.md, before:

# Kimai documentation

Welcome to the official Kimai v2 documentation. 

We know there is a lot missing right now and would appreciate [any help](https://github.com/kevinpapst/kimai2/pulls) in writing. 
If you need information which is not available right now, [ask us](https://github.com/kevinpapst/kimai2/issues) and we 
try to add it as soon as possible. 

## User manual

For the most parts Kimai usage should be self-explanatory, so we will only cover topics here which were 
[requested](https://github.com/kevinpapst/kimai2/issues) by the community.

- [Timesheets](timesheet.md) - information about timesheets
- [Invoices](invoices.md) - export your data to different formats with customizable templates
- [User and Security](users.md) - docu for user and security topics, like authentication, registration and roles  
- [Configurations](configurations.md) - intro into the global application configs
    - [Emails](emails.md) - transport configuration and handling of emails 
    - [Dashboard & widgets](dashboard.md) - how to configure widgets and dashboard sections
    - [Calendar](calendar.md) - the Timesheet calendar view
- [Developer docu](developers.md) - how to extend Kimai's feature set  
    - [Theme settings](theme.md) - theme related settings
- [FAQ](faq.md) - some answers to frequently asked questions 
- [API](developers_api.md) - how to use the JSON API 
- [Translations](translations.md) - all about languages and translations

## Installation
 
- [Installation](installation.md) - instructions about several installation methods
- [Importing data](migration_v1.md) - how to import your timesheets from Kimai v1

Commit message:

improved docs and cross-linked docker

var/docs/README.md, after:

# Kimai documentation

Welcome to the official Kimai v2 documentation. 

We know there is a lot missing right now and would appreciate [any help](https://github.com/kevinpapst/kimai2/pulls) in writing. 
If you need information which is not available right now, [ask us](https://github.com/kevinpapst/kimai2/issues) and we 
try to add it as soon as possible. 

## User manual

For the most parts Kimai usage should be self-explanatory, so we will only cover topics here which were 
[requested](https://github.com/kevinpapst/kimai2/issues) by the community.

- [Configurations](configurations.md) - intro into the global application configs
    - [Calendar](calendar.md) - the Timesheet calendar view
    - [Dashboard & widgets](dashboard.md) - how to configure widgets and dashboard sections
    - [Emails](emails.md) - transport configuration and handling of emails 
- [Developer](developers.md) - docs about extending Kimai's feature set  
    - [API](developers_api.md) - how to use the JSON API 
    - [Theme settings](theme.md) - theme related settings
- [FAQ](faq.md) - some answers to frequently asked questions 
- [Installation](installation.md) - instructions about several installation methods
    - [Docker](docker.md) - using the built-in Dockerfile for development
    - [Importing data](migration_v1.md) - how to import your timesheets from Kimai v1
- [Invoices](invoices.md) - export your data to different formats with customizable templates
- [Timesheets](timesheet.md) - information about timesheets
- [Translations](translations.md) - all about languages and translations
- [User and Security](users.md) - docu for user and security topics, like authentication, registration and roles
