var/docs/users.md, before:

# Users

There are multiple pre-defined roles in Kimai, which define the ACLs. A user can only inherit one role, where the roles extend each user.

## Roles & Permissions

| Role name | extends | Gives permission for |
|---|---|---|
| ROLE_CUSTOMER | -  | Currently has no permissions, but was reserved for future functionality  |
| ROLE_USER | ROLE_CUSTOMER  | Time-tracking  |
| ROLE_TEAMLEAD | ROLE_USER  | All of the above, plus: editing other users timesheets  |
| ROLE_ADMIN | ROLE_TEAMLEAD | All of the above, plus: editing customers, editing projects, editing activities |
| ROLE_SUPER_ADMIN | ROLE_ADMIN  | All of the above, plus: editing users  |

## Login

- User can login with their username or email
- If you activate the `Remember me` option, you can use use the most common functions within the next days without a new login

### Remember me login

If you have chosen to login with the `Remember me` option, your login will be extended to one week (default value).
After coming back and being remembered you have access to all the following features:
 
- view your own timesheet
- start and stop new records
- edit existing records

If you are an administrator, you will see all your allowed options in the menu, but will be redirected to the login 
form when you try to access them. This is a security feature to prevent abuse in case you forgot to logout in public 
environments.

Read the [configurations chapter](configurations.md) if you want to change the value. 

## User registration

User registration with instant approval is activated by default, so users can register and will be able to login and start time-tracking instantly.
If you want your new users to use [email](emails.md) based activation, you need to change the following configuration:

- in `config/packages/fos_user.yaml` change the setting `fos_user.registration.confirmation.enabled` to true (default: false)

If you want to deactivate the user registration completely, you have to change the following configs:

- in `config/packages/admin_lte.yaml` remove the route alias `admin_lte.routes.adminlte_registration` (this will remove the link from the login form)
- in `config/routes.yaml` remove the block `fos_user_registration` (this will deactivate the functionality)

## Password reset

The reset password function is enabled by default, read how to activate [email](emails.md) support.
If you want to deactivate this feature you have to change the following configs:

- in `config/packages/admin_lte.yaml` remove the route alias `admin_lte.routes.adminlte_password_reset` (this will remove the link from the login form)
- in `config/routes.yaml` remove the block `fos_user_resetting` (this will deactivate the functionality)

If you want to configure the behaviour (like the allowed time between multiple retries) then configure the settings:

- in `config/packages/fos_user.yaml` the key below `fos_user.registration.resetting` (see [documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/bundles/FOSUserBundle/configuration_reference.html))
- the values `retry_ttl` and `token_ttl` are configured in seconds (7220 = 2 hours)

Commit message:

Added config setting to disable password-reset and user-registration (#261)

var/docs/users.md, after:

# Users

There are multiple pre-defined roles in Kimai, which define the ACLs. A user can only inherit one role, where the roles extend each user.

## Roles & Permissions

| Role name | extends | Gives permission for |
|---|---|---|
| ROLE_CUSTOMER | -  | Currently has no permissions, but was reserved for future functionality  |
| ROLE_USER | ROLE_CUSTOMER  | Time-tracking  |
| ROLE_TEAMLEAD | ROLE_USER  | All of the above, plus: editing other users timesheets  |
| ROLE_ADMIN | ROLE_TEAMLEAD | All of the above, plus: editing customers, editing projects, editing activities |
| ROLE_SUPER_ADMIN | ROLE_ADMIN  | All of the above, plus: editing users  |

## Login

- User can login with their username or email
- If you activate the `Remember me` option, you can use use the most common functions within the next days without a new login

### Remember me login

If you have chosen to login with the `Remember me` option, your login will be extended to one week (default value).
After coming back and being remembered you have access to all the following features:
 
- view your own timesheet
- start and stop new records
- edit existing records

If you are an administrator, you will see all your allowed options in the menu, but will be redirected to the login 
form when you try to access them. This is a security feature to prevent abuse in case you forgot to logout in public 
environments.

Read the [configurations chapter](configurations.md) if you want to change the value. 

## User registration

User registration with instant approval is activated by default, so users can register and will be able to login and start time-tracking instantly.

Read the [configurations chapter](configurations.md) if you want to disable the registration or enable email verification. 

## Password reset

The reset password function is enabled by default, but you need to activate [email](emails.md) support if you want to use it.

If you want to deactivate this feature you have to change the following configs:

- in `config/packages/admin_lte.yaml` remove the route alias `admin_lte.routes.adminlte_password_reset` (this will remove the link from the login form)
- in `config/routes.yaml` remove the block `fos_user_resetting` (this will deactivate the functionality)

If you want to configure the behaviour (like the allowed time between multiple retries) then configure the settings:

- in `config/packages/fos_user.yaml` the key below `fos_user.registration.resetting` (see [documentation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/bundles/FOSUserBundle/configuration_reference.html))
- the values `retry_ttl` and `token_ttl` are configured in seconds (7220 = 2 hours) 

Read the [configurations chapter](configurations.md) if you want to reload the changed configuration files.
